ANTARCTIC TREATY                TRATADO ANTARTICO
THIRD CONSULTATIVE MEETING     TERCERA REUNION CONSULTIVA
TROISIEME REUNION CONSULTATIVE  TPETbE KОНСУЛЬТАТИВНОЕ СОВЕЩАНИЕ
TRAITE SUR L'ANTARCTIQUE        ДОГОВОР ОБ АНТАРКТИКЕ

BRUXELLES

CONFIDENTIAL
Doc/ F9/Rev.1
1 June 1964
Original: English

AGENDA ITEM N° 3

STANDING COMMITTEE ON ANTARTIC METEOROLOGY

Dated April 3, 1964:

*   Joint Recommendation proposed by Chile and the U.K.

1.      The Representatives, recalling Article III of the
Antarctic Treaty and Recommendations I-V of the First Con-
sultative Meeting, welcome the decision of the World Mete-
orological Organisation to establish a Standing Committee on
Antarctic meteorology. They note that the establishment
of this Committee is conditional upon the approval of the
Contracting Parties to the Antarctic Treaty: accordingly,
they recommend to their governments that, if they have not
already done so, they inform the Secretary General of the
World Meteorological Organisation that they approve the
establishment of this Standing Committee.

2.      The Representatives request that the resolutions,
recommendations and reports of the Standing Committee under
paragraph 3 of Resolution 29 (Cg - IV) be communicated
through the diplomatic channel by the Committee to the
Contracting Parties entitled to participate in the Consul-
tative Meetings of the Antartic Treaty. These communica-
tions are not intended to replace the usual procedures of
the World Meteorological Organisation.
