TRAITE SUR L'ANTA[?]CTIQUE
XVe CONFERENCE CONSULTATIVE

ДОГОВОР ОБ АНТАРКТИКЕ
XV КОНСУЛЬТАТИВНОЕ СОВЕЩАНИЕ

                                  ANTARCTIC TREATY
                                  XV th CONSULTATIVE MEETING

                                  TRATADO ANTARTICO
                                  XV REUNION CONSULTIVA


PARIS
9-19 OCTOBRE 1989

XV ATCM/WP/58
Item 13 on the agenda


DRAFT PARAGRAPHS FOR FINAL REPORT

EFFECTS OF TOURISM AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL EXPEDITIONS IN THE
ANTARCTIC TREATY AREA
DRAFT PARAGRAPHS FOR FINAL REPORT

ITEM 13 : EFFECTS OF TOURISM AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL EXPEDITIONS IN 
THE ANTARCTIC TREATY AREA

The    meeting   noted   that   the   scale   of   tourism   and   non-
governmental activities in Antarctica continued to increase. It 
was accepted that Antarctica should in general be open to such 
activities, which could be valuable in broadening public       
awareness and appreciation of the continent. However, there     
continued to be concern that such activities, if uncontrolled   
or excessive, could have potentially serious adverse impacts on 
scientific investigations and the Antarctic environment.  In   
this context some delegations indicated that a distinction      
should be drawn between tourism and non-governmental           
activities.

The meeting therefore agreed that a comprehensive review of the 
issue was required, taking account of the relevant provisions   
of the Antarctic Treaty and existing Recommendations (IV-2, VI- 
7, VII-4, VIII-9, and X-8), as well as relevant Recommendations  
adopted at the present meeting which would contribute to an     
amelioration of the situation.

Several delegations stressed the desirability of such a review  
leading to further measures to regulate tourist and non-       
governmental activities, in order to reduce or avoid their     
possible adverse impacts. Particular emphasis was placed on the 
need to avoid interference with scientific investigations and  
their logistic support, and harmful environmental effects. The  
need to consider questions such as the control of tourist and  
non-governmental activities, responsibility, insurance,        
liability, safety, search and rescue, and self-sufficiency was  
also pointed out by some delegations. The meeting was assisted  
by a working paper relating to questions of liability presented 
by the Federal Republic of Germany (XV ATCM/WP/30), as well as  
a working paper presented by Chile (XV ATCM/WP/44) relating to  
several aspects of the matter including liability.

The meeting agreed that such a review could most appropriately
take place within the context of the work on comprehensive
measures for the protection of the Antarctic environment and
its dependent and associated ecosystems, and that the
Consultative Meeting to be held in 1990 should undertake the
review. The meeting discussed a list of questions designed to
serve as a possible framework for such a review, contained in
document XV ATCM/WP/33 presented by the United Kingdom.
