ANTARCTIC TREATY                TRATADO ANTARTICO
XX CONSULTATIVE MEETING        XX REUNION CONSULTIVA

TRAITE SUR L'ANTA[?]CTIQUE     ДОГОВОР ОБ АНТАРКТИКЕ
XXe REUNION CONSULTATIVE       XX КОНСУЛЬТАТИВНОЕ СОВЕШАНИЕ

                               XX ATCM/INF 141
                               May 1996
                               Original: English

MESSAGE FROM THE XX CONSULTATIVE MEETING
TO STATIONS IN THE ANTARCTIC

(Submitted by the Secretariat)
MESSAGE FROM THE XX CONSULTATIVE MEETING TO STATIONS IN THE
ANTARCTIC

The Parties to the Antarctic Treaty have just completed two
weeks of discussion at their XX Consultative Meeting, which
was hosted by the Netherlands government in Utrecht.

The early entry into force of the Environmental Protocol to
the Antarctic Treaty and of its five Annexes remains the
priority objective. The Meeting noted with satisfaction that
since the last Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting (ATCM) 6
Consultative Parties (Belgium, Brazil, India, Poland, Republic
of Korea, South Africa) have ratified the Protocol, bringing
the total to 22 out of 26 States. It is now conceivable that
the Protocol will be in force before the next ATCM, which will
be held in New Zealand in 1997.

Valuable exchanges took place on tourism, education and train-
ing, and on the cultural and aesthetic values of the Antarct-
ic. Reports on current and proposed activities at Antarctic
stations, presented to the Meeting, demonstrated the continu-
ing benefit of Antarctic scientific research and the valuable
work undertaken by all Member States.

During this ATCM a Group of Legal Experts met again in order
to continue discussions on a sixth Annex to the Environmental
Protocol. This is to deal with Liability for environmental
damage. The ATCM was pleased to learn from the Group's chair-
man that the Group had made substantial progress. Further
discussions are scheduled before the XXI ATCM.

The Transitional Environmental Working Group (TEWG) met for
the second time. This interim body addresses the functions of
the Committee for Environmental Protection, which will come
into being when the Protocol enters into force. The TEWG had
an in-depth discussion on Environmental Impact Assessments
required by the Protocol. The TEWG also discussed the conse-
quences for the protected area system of the Protocol's entry
into force. It revised various management plans and took
decisions on the designations of an Antarctic Specially Manag-
ed Area and an Historic Site.

The ATCM agreed on a mechanism for the exchange of information
with the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy  (AEPS)
Conference for the benefit of both parties.

As the Antarctic year moves into another winter, delegations
participating in the XX Consultative Meeting send their
warmest greetings to all in Antarctica. We wish you every
success in your important scientific endeavours during the
coming months.
