ANTARCTIC TREATY                 
XXI CONSULTATIVE MEETING      TRATADO ANTARTICO
                                  XXI REUNION CONSULTIVA

TRAITE SUR L'ANTARTIQUE
XXIeme REUNION CONSULTATIVE     ДОГОВОР ОБ АНТАРКТИКЕ
                                  XXI КОНСУЛЬТАТИВНОЕ СОВЕЩАНИЕ

                                  
              100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
              OF CAPTAIN A DE GERLACHE (BELGIUM), 1897-1899


Agenda item 13         Submitted by Belgium

XXI ATCM/IP1
April, 1997
Original: French
100th ANNIVERSARY OF THE ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION OF CAPTAIN A.
de GERLACHE (Belgium), 1897-1899

The Belgian expedition of 1897 was the first expedition to
the far South to focus on the objectives of contemporary
scientific research. The goal of the group was to spend the
winter in the area.

Captain de Gerlache was able to draw on the expertise of
Polish explorer Henryk Arctowski, the American Frederick
Cook, Emile Racovitza from Romania and the Norwegian Roald
Amundsen, as well as the skills of fellow-Belgians Georges
Lecointe and Emile Danco.

After becoming trapped in the winter ice, the ship drifted a
distance of 1700 nautical miles. The observations made
during this time advanced the state of human knowledge in a
number of scientific disciplines.

In terms of geography, it was this voyage which revealed the
existence of a deep basin between Tierra del Fuego and the
South Shetlands. It was discovered that Alexander I Land and
King Edward VII Land were joined, contrary to the generally
accepted thinking of the day. The first camp in the history
of the exploration of the South Pole was set up on Brabant
Island.

The list of plant material taken back to Europe by the
expedition included five hundred samples from many unknown
species, fifty-five species of lichens, twenty-seven of
moss, a number of fresh-water algae, one mushroom and one
member of the Gramineae.

The samples of material of animal origin comprised 1200
different items, including nematodes, Acarida and even
insects.

The study of a collection of seal embryos gathered by the
expedition produced significant advances in research on the
growth and development of this mammal, about which very
little was known at the time.

The behaviour patterns of cetacean mammals, seals and
penguins were documented from observation of these species
in their natural environment, backed up by photographs taken 
by members of the expedition.

For the first time ever, a meteorological observation 
programme was conducted over an entire twelve-month period, 
and the results from magnetic observations improved our 
understanding of terrestrial magnetism.

During the period from 1997 to 1998 Belgium will be 
organising a number of events to commemorate the arrival of 
the expedition, and it is in this context that the Royal 
Academy of Belgium is to hold the "Belgica Centennial 
Symposium", which will take place in Brussels from 13 to 15 
May 1998.
