SENT BY:FOREIGN AFFAIRS &TRADE: 5- 3-93 : 10:59 :       E.N.B.-      002 32 3500:# 2/ 3
                                  1NFO 51 2

OPENING ADDRESS BY MR. PHILIPPE GAUTIER
HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF BELGIUM

Mr. Chairman,

First of all, I wish to thank you for hosting us in the
wonderful town of Venice, as well as for the commitment
undertaken in carrying out this task.

Mr Chairman,

The Antarctic Treaty has evolved and we have unquestionably
entered a new stage of development in the last year. The
Antarctic System has gained further significance by the
adoption of Madrid Protocol, which has clearly showed the
ability of the Contracting Parties to face this new
challenge, namely the Environmental Protection.

Priority must be undoubtedly given to the ratification of
this document, and I can assure you that Belgium will give
its approval in the near future.

Mr Chairman,

The Madrid Protocol shows the firm intention to rationalize
the Regulations presently in force within the Antarctic
Treaty System. As a matter of fact, the new Regulations
defined by the Protocol and its Annexes, require a re-
examination of the existing Recommendations to assess their
compliance with the Protocol itself.

                                                      105
SENT BY:FOREIGN AFFAIRS &TRADE: 5- 3-93 : 10:59 :             E.N.B.-      002 32 3500:# 3/ 3         3

Tourism regulation represents an important stake.  After a 
two-days-informal meeting dealing with this issue, it is now 
clear that this probleme deserves a particular attention. 
Due to the increase in touristic activities in Antarctica, 
Belgium agrees upon adopting additional Regulations - in the 
form of an Annex - on tourism. These Regulations will 
complete the current measures foreseen under the Protocol. 

Meanwhile, the setting-up of a Secretariat is our main goal 
and Belgium agrees upon organising a small Secretariat 
according to the real needs of the Antarctic Treaty.

The Protocol states in its Article 16 the commitment of  the 
Member States to draw up one or more Annexes concerning  the 
liability regime. However, it seems necessary to work  out 
with no delay some practical Regulations regarding  the 
liability matter in order to carry out the present work.

Mr Chairman,

The Delegation of Belgium would like to reassure you about 
our intention of eventually taking part in these proceedings 
and wish that the Venice Conference will be fruitful.

Thank you, Mr Chairman.

                                                  106
INFO 51

OPENING ADDRESS BY MR. PHILIPPE GAUTIER
HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF BELGIUM

Mr. Chairman,

First of all, I wish to thank you for hosting us in the
wonderful town of Venice, as well as for the commitment
undertaken in carrying out this task.

Mr Chairman,

The Antarctic Treaty has evolved and we have unquestionably
entered a new stage of development in the last year. The
Antarctic System has gained further significance by the
adoption of Madrid Protocol, which has clearly showed the
ability of the Contracting Parties to face this new
challenge, namely the Environmental Protection.

Priority must be undoubtedly given to the ratification of
this document, and I can assure you that Belgium will give
its approval in the near future.

Mr Chairman,

The Madrid Protocol shows the firm intention to rationalize
the Regulations presently in force within the Antarctic
Treaty System. As a matter of fact, the new Regulations
defined by the Protocol and its Annexes, require a re-
exemination of the existing Recommendations to assess their
compliance with the Protocol itself.

                                 105
Tourism regulation represents an important stake. After a 
two-days-informal meeting dealing with this issue, it is now 
clear that this probleme deserves a particular attention. 
Due to the increase in touristic activities in Antarctica, 
Belgium agrees upon adopting additional Regulations - in the 
form of an Annex - on tourism. These Regulations will 
complete the current measures forseen under the Protocol.

Meanwhile, the setting-up of a Secretariat is our main goal 
and Belgium agrees upon organising a small Secretariat 
according to the real needs of the Antarctic Treaty.

     The Protocol states in its Article 16 the commitment of  the 
Member States to draw up one or more Annexes concerning  the 
liability regime. However, it seems necessary to work out 
with no delay some practical Regulations regarding  the 
liability matter in order to carry out the present work.

Mr. Chairman,

The Delegation of Belgium would like to reassure you about 
our intention of eventually taking part in these proceedings 
and wish that the Venice Conference will be fruitful.

Thank you, Mr Chairman.

 
                                 106
