ANTARCTIC TREATY
XVIIth CONSULTATIVE MEETING

TRAITÉ SUR L'ANTARCTIQUE
XVIIéme RÉUNION CONSULTATIVE                                  VENICE
                                                             11-20 november 1992
TRATADO ANTÁRTICO
XVII REUNIÓN CONSULTIVA

ДОГОВОР ОБ АНТАРКТИКЕ
XVII КОНСУЛЬТАТИВНОЕ СОВЕЩАНИЕ

XVII ATCM/INFO 37
12 November 1992
Original: English

 
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COOPERATION
IN ANTARCTICA

(Submitted by Japan)
International Scientific Cooperation in Antarctica

1. International Scientific Cooperation and SCAR

The national and international scientific programmes are 
planned, discussed and reported in general within the 
framework of SCAR-as one of non-governmental organizations of 
ICSU-: at and by its Executive meeting, Delegates Meeting, 
Meetings of subsidiary bodies(Standing Working Groups and ad 
hoc Specialists Group), often in cooperation with other ICSU 
organizations.

Therefore, Antarctic Treaty Parties whose representatives are 
the members of SCAR are conducting the international 
scientific cooperation in relation to these activities. This 
includes, for example, the COGS Workshop. The COGS means 
Cooperative Geoscience of South Shetland Islands, and is the 
group to seek the possible way of promotion of effective earth 
science research in the Antarctic Peninsula area by 
international cooperation, avoiding unnecessary duplication. 
Japan is actively participating in such activities: e.g., the 
Sixth SCAR International Symposium on Antarctic Earth Sciences 
together with COGS, ANTOSTRAT(Antarctic Offshore Acoustic 
Stratigraphy), and LIRA(Lithospheric Investigations in the 
Ross Sea Area) Workshops were held under the sponsorship of 
National Institute of Polar Research, Japan.

2. Japan

Japan has been carrying out the international collaborative 
scientific and logistic activities since the early stage of
the Antarctic research in accordance with the provisions of 
the Antarctic Treaty.

The DVDP(Dry Valley Drilling Project) in 1970s by U.S., New 
Zealand and Japan was said to be one of the most successful 
international collaborative investigations in the Antarctic. 
US-Japan Search for Antarctic Meteorites in 1976-1978, and 
then International Mt. Erebus Seismic Studies succeeded to the 
DVDP.

Currently, marine biological investigations in the Southern 
Ocean, geological and petrological studies of East Antarctic 
craton, and studies on upper atmosphere physics are in 
progress between Australia and Japan and between China and 
Japan on exchange scientist basis.  In addition, a few 
Japanese scientists are collaborating with Polish geophysical 
programme in the Antarctic Peninsula area, assisted by 
Argentine operation agency.  Argentine scientists are also 
conducting the cooperative work in the field of geomorphology 
with Japanese scientists in the Antarctic Peninsula area.
